# Goal
For this project, our goal was to try to use data from NBA rookie year stats, NCAA stats, and awards received by each player to predict whether or not they would eventually make it into the Hall of Fame. Having a way of categorizing whether or not a player would make the Hall of Fame from their rookie stats is beneficial as it can give an idea of the general trajectory of their career. This information would also be **invaluable** to general managers and higher level NBA executives who could identify which NBA players have hall of fame potential from their rookie year alone, as well as for brands to sign such players early on to build their businesses.

## Dataset
The datasets that we used were both downloaded from [Data.world] (https://tinyurl.com/nbaRookieData, https://tinyurl.com/ncaaPlayerData), which were sourced from the NBA website itself. From our exploratory data analysis, we hypothesized that the most important stats for this prediction would be efficiency, assists, points, rebounds, blocks, steals, field goal average, and the awards received. This was also a result of our background knowledge of the sport, as we thought high numbers in each of these stats would indicate a player’s impact on the game.

## Exploratory Data Analysis
In order to merge our two datasets, we had to combine them based on similar names and the year they started. Because some players had the same name, we needed another metric to distinguish them thus the year they started. The rookies dataset contained the year the player was drafted while the NCAA dataset contained the year the player started in the NBA. The difference between year drafted and year started was one year for almost all players therefore we had to increase the year drafted in the rookies dataset by one in order to combine the two datasets together. Afterwards, we decided to add the awards the players have received in their careers and since most of the players who earned rewards had unique names, we combined the awards dataset by the name only. Furthermore, since players need to be retired for at least 3 years to be considered hall of fame eligible, we had to throw out all players that were active after 2013 since our rookies dataset contained data up to 2016. Finally, we had to deal with missing values in our dataset. For the Hall of Fame class column, we filled in missing values with 0 since an empty value meant they weren’t in the hall of fame. For any other numeric column, we filled in the missing values with the average of the column.

## Models & Limitations
We trained four models in total: 1) Support Vector Machine 2) Random Forest Classifier 3) Logistic Regression and 4) K-Nearest Neighbors Classifier to predict whether an NBA rookie will make it into the Naismith Hall of Fame. For each model, we got a fairly high testing accuracy (upwards of 95%). However, one major problem we ran into was that the model was basically predicted that _everyone would not make the Hall of Fame_. This resulted in a high accuracy since almost 95% of our data contained players who didn't the Hall of Fame while only 5% did. To address this problem, we rebalanced our dataset and got much more reasonable accuracy scores (around 70%). 

## Next Steps
Thinking ahead, one way to address these limitations would be to add more players who made the Hall of Fame into the dataset since there are 178 former players currently inducted into the Naismith Hall of Fame, but the dataset only contains 26 of those players. Another improvement that could be made to improve the accuracy of predictions would be to apply more rigorous feature engineering and use techniques such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to prune some features that are redundant or are not useful for making predictions. Overall though, the work done in applying the different models to the dataset was a step in the right direction and offers a solid blueprint for tackling the challenging task of predicting Naismith Hall of Fame bound NBA player


